.TH TLSANALYZER 1 "2026-05-18" "tlsanalyzer" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tlsanalyzer \- analyze TLS protocol, cipher, certificate and policy posture
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlsanalyzer
.B --host
.I host
[
.I options
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tlsanalyzer
is a dependency-free TLS scanner that tests protocol support from TLS 1.0
through TLS 1.3, reports negotiated and probed cipher evidence, validates
certificates separately from protocol support, and can emit Markdown or JSON
reports for operational checks and CI workflows.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR --host " " \fIhost\fR
Hostname or server IP to scan. This option is required.
.TP
.BR --port " " \fIport\fR
TCP port to scan. Defaults to 443.
.TP
.BR --sni " " \fIname\fR
TLS Server Name Indication and certificate validation name.
.TP
.BR --min-version " " \fIversion\fR
Minimum TLS version to test: 1.0, 1.1, 1.2 or 1.3. Defaults to 1.0.
.TP
.BR --force-ciphers
Probe individual cipher suites where possible. TLS 1.3 cipher suites are
raw-probed with minimal ClientHello handshakes.
.TP
.BR --skip-verify
Skip certificate validation while still reporting TLS handshake support.
.TP
.BR --cert
Print or save the certificate chain.
.TP
.BR --output " " \fIfile\fR
Output file for PEM certificate data when used with
.BR --cert .
.TP
.BR --checkcert
Print days until certificate expiration in human-readable output.
.TP
.BR --markdown " " \fIfile\fR
Write a Markdown scan report.
.TP
.BR --json
Write the scan result as JSON to standard output.
.TP
.BR --no-clear
Do not clear the terminal before scanning.
.TP
.BR --compact
Use compact human-readable console output.
.TP
.BR --version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR --policy " " \fIname\fR
Evaluate a built-in policy. Currently supported:
.BR modern .
.TP
.BR --fail-on " " \fIchecks\fR
Comma-separated checks that fail the run. Supported checks:
.BR legacy-tls ,
.BR weak-cipher ,
.BR invalid-cert ,
and
.BR expired-cert .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Scan completed and enabled policy checks passed.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid input, scan setup failure, report write failure or certificate output
failure.
.TP
.B 2
CLI flag parsing failed.
.TP
.B 3
Scan completed but enabled policy checks failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Analyze a host:
.B tlsanalyzer --host example.com
.TP
Analyze a host with SNI and JSON output:
.B tlsanalyzer --host 203.0.113.10 --sni example.com --json
.TP
Run a modern TLS policy gate:
.B tlsanalyzer --host example.com --policy modern --no-clear
.TP
Print version information:
.B tlsanalyzer --version
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/tlsanalyzer
Installed executable in Linux packages.
.TP
.I /usr/share/man/man1/tlsanalyzer.1
Installed manual page in Linux packages.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project documentation:
.UR https://github.com/olelbis/tlsanalyzer
https://github.com/olelbis/tlsanalyzer
.UE
